---
title: "RFC-0001: CommonGrants v0.1.0"
description: The Request for Comments (RFC) process and scope for v0.1.0 draft of the CommonGrants protocol.
---

This document outlines the Request for Comments (RFC) process and scope for v0.1.0 draft of the CommonGrants protocol.

:::tip[RFC closed]

The comment period for this RFC is now closed but you can:

- View all of the feedback in our [Discourse forum](https://simplergrants.discourse.group/t/request-for-comments-commongrants-protocol-v0-1-0/49/1)
- Provide input on our [latest RFCs](/governance/rfc#active-rfcs)

:::

## Process

- **Participation** The RFC process is open to all members of the community. We're particularly interested in feedback from:
  - Grantors and grant seekers
  - Grant management platforms interested in adopting the protocol
  - Developers interested in building cross-platform tools for grants
- **Format**
  - Comments will be accepted in a dedicated thread on the SimplerGrants discourse server.
  - We will respond directly to each comment in the thread to ensure all feedback is considered.
- **Timeline**:
  - **Comment Period**: Open through May 17.
  - **Feedback Review**: After the comment period closes, we will review and incorporate feedback.
  - **Release**: Publish a stable v0.1.0 release of the `@common-grants/core` library and CLI, reflecting community input.

## Scope

We're eager to hear your thoughts on various parts of the CommonGrants protocol. Here's what we're focusing on:

### Specification

Dive into the [v0.1.0 draft specification](/protocol/specification) and let us know what you think. We're especially curious about your feedback on:

- Protocol-defined schemas for:
  - [Base types](/protocol/specification#base-types)
  - [Core fields](/protocol/specification#core-fields)
  - [Opportunity models](/protocol/specification#opportunity-models)
- Protocol-defined approaches for:
  - [Pagination](/protocol/specification#pagination)
  - [Sorting](/protocol/specification#sorting)
  - [Filtering](/protocol/specification#filtering)
- The protocol-defined extension pattern for:
  - [Custom fields](/protocol/specification#custom-fields)
  - [Custom filters](/protocol/specification#custom-filters)
  - [Custom enums](/protocol/specification#custom-enum-values)
  - [Custom routes](/protocol/specification#custom-routes)

### Developer Tools

We're looking for feedback on tools that will streamline the adoption of the CommonGrants protocol. Help us:

- Improve existing tools like[`@common-grants/core`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@common-grants/core) and [`@common-grants/cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@common-grants/cli)
- Prioritize new developer tools, like:
  - Boilerplate templates for different API frameworks
  - Software Development Kits (SDKs) for implementing the protocol
  - Client libraries for interacting with the protocol

### Documentation

We want our documentation to be as helpful as possible. Help us identify:

- Changes we should make to the current site content or structure
- Additional guides and tutorials you'd find useful
- Any extra reference material you think we should include

### Adoption and Governance

We're curious about how you or your organization might use the CommonGrants protocol. We'd love to know:

- If you're interested in adopting the protocol
- How you'd like to be involved in its governance
- Any tweaks we should make to the [proposed governance model](/governance/adr/0016-governance-model/) to better represent our community
