---
title: "RFC-0002: Apply models and routes"
description: "RFC for the apply models and routes introduced in v0.2.0 of the CommonGrants protocol"
---

This document outlines the Request for Comments (RFC) process for the apply models and routes introduced in v0.2.0 of the CommonGrants protocol.

:::tip[Join the conversation]

Want to leave a comment on the RFC? Share your thoughts on our [Discourse forum](https://forum.simpler.grants.gov/c/commongrants/8) or fill out our [interest form](https://forms.gle/Zy2ZCkSWDP4GY2md6) to discuss your feedback.

:::

## Process

- **Participation** The RFC process is open to all members of the community. We're particularly interested in feedback from:
  - Grantors and grant seekers
  - Grant management platforms interested in adopting the protocol
  - Developers interested in building cross-platform tools for grants
- **Format**
  - Comments will be accepted in a dedicated thread on the SimplerGrants discourse forum.
  - We will respond directly to each comment in the thread to ensure all feedback is considered.
- **Timeline**:
  - **Comment Period**: Open through October 1, 2025.
  - **Feedback Review**: After the comment period closes, we will review and incorporate feedback in future versions of the protocol.

## Scope

We're interested in your thoughts on the new models and routes introduced in v0.2.0 of the CommonGrants protocol to support the "apply" workflow.

### Apply routes

Review the [v0.2.0 OpenAPI docs](/protocol/api-docs?version=v0.2.0) to review the newly introduced routes.

- **Competitions:** `GET /common-grants/competitions/{compId}` View competition details for a given funding opportunity
- **Applications:**
  - `POST /common-grants/applications/start` Start a new application
  - `GET /common-grants/applications/{appId}` View an application
  - `PUT /common-grants/applications/{appId}/form/{formId}` Respond to an application form
  - `GET /common-grants/applications/{appId}/form/{formId}` Get a form response
  - `PUT /common-grants/applications/{appId}/submit` Submit an application
- **Forms:**
  - `GET /common-grants/forms` List all forms
  - `GET /common-grants/forms/{formId}` View a form

Some specific questions we're interested in:

- Should we support a "direct apply" route? To allow API consumers to submit all of the details for an application in a single request.
- Are there other common application-related operations that we should support as API endpoints?

### Apply models and schemas

In addition to the routes listed above, we've added several schemas to support the "apply" workflow.

- [Competition](/protocol/models/competition): A distinct application process or period for a given funding opportunity
- [Form](/protocol/models/form): A form that is part of an application process
- [Application](/protocol/models/application): A submission of a proposed project, people, and organization to a competition
- [Form response](/protocol/models/form-response): A response to a form

Areas for input:

- Are these models missing any fields that are used consistently across grant platforms?
- Are there any other models that we should introduce to support the "apply" workflow?

### Application data mapping

We've also introduced several models to support mapping the contents of an application form to standard CommonGrants data models, which lays the groundwork for pre-filling data across forms and applications.

- [Proposal](/protocol/models/proposal): A proposal for a funding opportunity, i.e. what individual application forms can be mapped to
- [Organization](/protocol/models/organization): An organization affiliated with a proposal
- [Person](/protocol/models/person): A person affiliated with a proposal
- [Mapping](/protocol/models/mapping): A format for mapping a form response to a CommonGrants data model (i.e. proposal)

Areas for input:

- Are there other common application questions that should be reflected in the proposal model?
- Are there other types of common transformations that the mapping model should support?

### Form library proof of concept

Building on the application data mapping, we also introduced a proof of concept for a form library. This library demonstrates how we can use the form mappings to translate and pre-fill data across forms.

- [Form library](/forms/library): A library of forms that have been mapped to the CommonGrants data models
- [Form pre-fill playground](/forms/playground): A playground for testing how data can be pre-filled across forms used CommonGrants

Guiding questions include:

- Are there other forms you’d like us to prioritize mapping in the next version of this form library?
- What other tools or features would make this form library more useful?
